submodules/setup-documents/markdown/install_r.md, before:

## Install R and RStudio ##

R is a programming language and software environment for statistical computing and graphics. The RStudio Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is a set of tools designed to help you be more productive with R.

We need to install R and RStudio: 
The latest links can be found on the [RStudio downloads page](https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/#download)

### R

R can be found at [https://cran.rstudio.com/](https://cran.rstudio.com/), from here pick your OS and download the latest release, see below for direct links to your OS.

#### Windows
- [https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/windows/base/](https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/windows/base/)

#### Mac OS
- If prompted, choose to allow downloads from cran.rstudio.com.

- [https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/macosx/](https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/macosx/)
  - For intel based macs choose R-4.*.*.pkg
  - For ARM based macs (M1 etc.) choose R-4.*.*-arm64.pkg

#### Linux
- R is included on many linux distros check to see if it is already present. Else use your package manager (snap, apt, yum), or look [here](https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/linux/)


### RStudio

Your OS should be detected and a link provided under step 2 on this page [RStudio downloads page](https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/#download).
Else select your OS from the list under All Installers.

#### Windows

Download and run the .exe file and follow instructions given by your OS.

#### Mac OS

Download the .dmg file.
- If prompted, choose to allow downloads from rstudio.com.
- Open the downloaded dmg archive from the Downloads folder.
- Drag the RStudio icon to the Applications folder to install.

#### Linux
Download the appropriate install file (.rpm or .deb) for your distro.

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ Southampton-RSG-Training/shell-novice@9c119b3c99fb5d6a799bf7df90c1f2fd37b6cb2e 🚀

submodules/setup-documents/markdown/install_r.md, after:

## Install R and RStudio ##

R is a programming language and software environment for statistical computing and graphics. The RStudio Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is a set of tools designed to help you be more productive with R.

We need to install R and RStudio: 
The latest links can be found on the [RStudio downloads page](https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/#download).  Alternatively, you can install R and RStudio from Software Centre if you are using a University of Southampton laptop.

### R

R can be found at [https://cran.rstudio.com/](https://cran.rstudio.com/), from here pick your OS and download the latest release, see below for direct links to your OS.

#### Windows
- [https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/windows/base/](https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/windows/base/)

#### Mac OS
- If prompted, choose to allow downloads from cran.rstudio.com.

- [https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/macosx/](https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/macosx/)
  - For intel based macs choose R-4.*.*.pkg
  - For ARM based macs (M1 etc.) choose R-4.*.*-arm64.pkg

#### Linux
- R is included on many linux distros check to see if it is already present. Else use your package manager (snap, apt, yum), or look [here](https://cran.rstudio.com/bin/linux/)


### RStudio

Your OS should be detected and a link provided under step 2 on this page [RStudio downloads page](https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/#download).
Else select your OS from the list under All Installers.

#### Windows

Download and run the .exe file and follow instructions given by your OS.

#### Mac OS

Download the .dmg file.
- If prompted, choose to allow downloads from rstudio.com.
- Open the downloaded dmg archive from the Downloads folder.
- Drag the RStudio icon to the Applications folder to install.

#### Linux
Download the appropriate install file (.rpm or .deb) for your distro.
